README.md, before:

# `spring-boot-starter-request-reply`
## Description
This Spring Boot Starter provides request-reply functionality for [Spring Cloud Stream Binders].

## Usage
### Dependencies
In order to be able to use the request/reply functionality, add the following section to your Maven pom:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>ch.sbb.tms.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-request-reply</artifactId>
</dependency>
```



In order to use the starter in conjunction with a Binder, one will also need the respective dependency for that one.



### Usage

#### For requester

If your want to send a request.  
You have to define a topic pattern that match the topic where you send your requests to,
to define the binding that should be used for these requests.
With the binding your define the binder, contentType, ...  
and the response address where the replier should send the response to.

`spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[n].binding` have to:
- match a entry in: `spring.cloud.function.definition`
- match `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.XX-in-0` where you defined the binder, contentType, ...

`spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[n].topicPatterns[m]`:
- Is a list of RegEx pattern that will match against the destination of your requests.
- If there is no matching patterns when execute `requestAndAwaitReplyToTopic()`/`requestReplyToTopic()` and `IllegalArgumentException` will be thrown.
- If you only want to use `requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding()`/`requestReplyToBinding()` you don`t need to give this configuration.

Please remember to define this binding as well in the `spring.cloud.function.definition`,
otherwise you will not receive responses.
But you not need to create a bean for that, this will be generated by the library.

##### Using dynamic topics
```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    function:
      definition: requestReplyRepliesDemo
    stream:
      requestreply:
        bindingMapping:
          - binding: requestReplyRepliesDemo
            replyTopic: requestReply/response/solace/{StagePlaceholder}/@project.artifactId@_${HOSTNAME}_${replyTopicWithWildcards|uuid}
            topicPatterns:
              - requestReply/request/.*
      bindings:
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-in-0:
          destination: ${replyTopicWithWildcards|requestReplyRepliesDemo|*}
          contentType: "application/json"
          binder: solace 
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-out-0:
          binder: solace
```

```java
        SensorReading response = requestReplyService.requestAndAwaitReplyToTopic(
                reading,
                "requestReply/request/last_value/temperature/celsius/" + location,
                SensorReading.class,
                Duration.ofSeconds(30)
        );
```

##### Using static topics
```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    function:
      definition: requestReplyRepliesDemo
    stream:
      requestreply:
        bindingMapping:
          - binding: requestReplyRepliesDemo
            replyTopic: requestReply/response/solace/{StagePlaceholder}/@project.artifactId@_${HOSTNAME}_${replyTopicWithWildcards|uuid}
      bindings:
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-in-0:
          destination: ${replyTopicWithWildcards|requestReplyRepliesDemo|*}
          contentType: "application/json"
          binder: solace 
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-out-0:
          destination: requestReply/request/last_value/temperature/celsius/livingroom,
          binder: solace
```

```java
        SensorReading response = requestReplyService.requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding(
                reading,
                "requestReplyRepliesDemo",
                SensorReading.class,
                Duration.ofSeconds(30)
        );
```

[Full example](https://code.sbb.ch/projects/TP_TMS_PLATTFORM/repos/springcloudstream-examples/browse/pub_sub_sending/src/main/java/ch/sbb/tms/springcloudstream/examples/pubsubsending/controller/RequestReplyController.java)

##### How everything is related

When using `requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding` / `requestReplyToTopic`
The topic u use in the code will be matched against all `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].topicPatterns`,  
the fist hit will be used.
![topic to pattern](doc/requester_topic_to_pattern.png)

The `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].binding` of the matching section will be matched against
`spring.cloud.stream.bindings[]` and always out-1 will be used.  
This is required to let the requestReply service know what `binder`, `contentType`, ... is to use.  
![binding to -out-0](doc/binding_to_out-0.png) 

The `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].replyTopic` of the matching section will be placed int the outbound 
message to let the foreign service know where you expect the answer.  
In general, you want to use here a topic that is unique.  
Best practice is to put:
- HOSTNAME into the topic to make debugging a little easier.
- put a UUID into the topic to have a unique inbox.
  You not want to use `${random.uuid}` of spring here, because this would generate a new uuid each time it will be called.
  What is a problem at this point. Please prefer `${replyTopicWithWildcards|uuid}` to have a static uuid that was generated on process start.  
![reply topic sending](doc/reply_topic_sending.png)

The requestReply service will iterate over `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping` 
And create a Bean to consume messages received on `-in-0.destination` using the given binder.  
![consuming topic](doc/consuming_topic.png)

As soon as you use the `{StagePlaceholder}` feature, you can not listen on:  
`requestReply/response/solace/{StagePlaceholder}/pub_sub_sending_K353456_315fd96b-b981-417b-be99-3be065c6611d`  
because the foreign side will replace `{StagePlaceholder}` against `p-arcs`for example before responding.  
There for you need to listen on:
`requestReply/response/solace/*/pub_sub_sending_K353456_315fd96b-b981-417b-be99-3be065c6611d`  
This task will be done by: `${replyTopicWithWildcards|requestReplyRepliesDemo|*}`  
It will take `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].replyTopic` of the section, matching the first parameter.  
And replace all `{someThing}` to the wildcard (second parameter) `*`  
![reply topic replace wildcard](doc/replyTopicWithWildcards.png)

#### For replier

You want to answer to a message, in general you not need this lib.
Simple response to the reply to header and reply all requested header.

Or let this do the helper methode `RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService.wrap` from this library.

You not need any configuration to use this.

```java
public class PingPongConfig {
  @Bean
  public Function<Message<SensorRequest>, Message<SensorReading>> responseToRequest(RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService headerSupport) {
    return headerSupport.wrap((readingIn) -> {
      SensorReading reading = new SensorReading();
      ...

      return reading;
    });
  }
}
```

[Full example](https://code.sbb.ch/projects/TP_TMS_PLATTFORM/repos/springcloudstream-examples/browse/pub_sub_receiving/src/main/java/ch/sbb/tms/springcloudstream/examples/pubsubreceiving/config/PingPongConfig.java)

##### Variable replacement

According to this documentation:
- https://confluence.sbb.ch/display/TRS/Solace+Communication-+und+Naming-Patterns
- https://confluence.sbb.ch/display/TRS/Solace+Pattern+AR+Entscheid

There is a need to replace wildcards in reply topics.
For example: "{StagePlaceholder}" need to be replaced by the replier stage.
To let the requester know who answered. That will be helpful when debugging how messages are flowing.

Example:

```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    function:
      definition: requestReplyRepliesDemo
    stream:
      requestreply:
        variableReplacements:
          "{StagePlaceholder}": ${RCS_ENV_ROLE}-${RCS_CLUSTER}
```

Those `variableReplacements` will be applied to request and reply topics.

### API

#### `RequestReplyService`

The request/reply functionality provided by this starter can be utilized by autowiring the `RequestReplyService` which offers  the following methods:

- `A requestAndAwaitReplyToTopic(Q request, String requestDestination, Class<A> expectedResponseClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the given request destination, awaits the response and maps it to the provided class as a return value.
  If there is a `-out-0.destination` configured, it will simply be ignored.
- `A requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding(Q request, String bindingName, Class<A> expectedResponseClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the `destination`configured for the `-out-0`of this binding, awaits the response and maps it to the provided class as a return value.
  If there is a `-out-0.destination` configured, it will simply be ignored.
- `CompletableFuture<A> requestReplyToTopic(Q request, String requestDestination, Class<A> expectedClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the given request destination, returns a future and maps it to the provided class when responses received. Use this only if you have the rare edge case that you need to run multiple request reply in parallel in the same thread.
- `CompletableFuture<A> requestReplyToBinding(Q request, String bindingName, Class<A> expectedClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the `destination`configured for the `-out-0`of this binding, returns a future and maps it to the provided class when responses received. Use this only if you have the rare edge case that you need to run multiple request reply in parallel in the same thread.

All methods can be used in any combination.

#### `RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService`

In case a service is only responding to requests, the library can still be used as it offers receiving services helper methods to wrap response functions by means of the `RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService`, which properly sets the Message's destination header, which then can be picked up through Spring Cloud Functions. e.g.:

```java
    @Bean
    @Autowired
    public Function<Message<String>, Message<String>> reverse(RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService headerSupport) {
        return headerSupport.wrap((value) -> new StringBuilder(value).reverse().toString());
    }
```

## Extensibility

The Request/Reply Spring Boot Starter has been designed to work with both the [Solace Binder](https://github.com/SolaceProducts/solace-spring-cloud) and the [TestSupportBinder](https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-stream/blob/main/spring-cloud-stream-test-support/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/stream/test/binder/TestSupportBinder.java), but can be extended to work with other binders as well.

For that the following beans must be provided to be able to adopt to another binder.

### Message and MessageHeader parsers

When receiving messages, the application must be able to determine correlationId, destination and replyTo properties attached to a message. Unless a particular binder adheres to spring messaging standards or requires differing headers for performance optimizations, additional message parsers (or related message header parsers) must be present. For proper prioritization the bean should be annotated with the `@Order` annotation. (see [@Order in Spring @Baeldung])



The Starter includes the following message parser interfaces:

- `MessageCorrelationIdParser` - root interface for parsing the correlation id from an incoming message
  - `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser` - extended interface for parsing the correlation id from an incoming message's MessageHeaders
- `MessageDestinationParser` - root interface for parsing the destination from an incoming message
  - `MessageHeaderDestinationParser`- extended interface for parsing the destination from an incoming message's MessageHeaders
- `MessageReplyToParser` - root interface for parsing the reply destination from an incoming message
  - `MessageHeaderReplyToParser` - extended interface for parsing the reply destination from an incoming message's MessageHeaders



The starter also includes the following message parser implementations:

- `SolaceHeaderParser`  _Order: 200_
  implements `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser`,  `MessageHeaderDestinationParser`, `MessageHeaderReplyToParser` for the Solace binder
- `SpringCloudStreamHeaderParser` _Order 10000_
  implements `MessageHeaderDestinationParser` for standard Spring Cloud Stream headers
- `SpringIntegrationHeaderParser` _Order 20000_
  implements `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser` for standard Spring Integration headers
- `BinderHeaderParser` _Order 30000_
  implements `MessageHeaderDestinationParser` for standard Spring Cloud Stream Binder headers
- `SpringHeaderParser` _Order 40000_
  implements `MessageHeaderReplyToParser` for Spring Framework message header standards
- `HttpHeaderParser` _Order LOWEST_PRECEDENCE_
  implements `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser` according to HTTP header standard



## Known issues and Open Points

### Statefulness
Since message relations are kept in memory, this starter is neither fail-safe nor scalable.

More precisely:
- If one instance of the service sends a message and another one receives the response, these can not be related.
- If a service dies, any relations are forgotten and replies can no longer be related to request,
  potentially resulting in message loss.

## External Links
- [Spring Cloud Stream Solace Samples](https://solace.com/samples/solace-samples-spring/spring-cloud-stream/)


## Compatibility

Tested with:

| SpringBoot 	| SpringCloudStream 	|
|------------	|-------------------	|
| 2.6.6      	| 2021.0.1          	| 
| 2.6.6      	| 2021.0.3           	|

<!-- reused links -->

[@Order in Spring @Baeldung]: https://www.baeldung.com/spring-order
[Spring Cloud Stream Binders]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-stream/docs/current/reference/html/spring-cloud-stream.html#spring-cloud-stream-overview-binders

Commit message:

RCSPF-119794 / RCSPF-120742: allowing to configure additional message headers to be copied upon wrapping responses

README.md, after:

# `spring-boot-starter-request-reply`
## Description
This Spring Boot Starter provides request-reply functionality for [Spring Cloud Stream Binders].

## Usage
### Dependencies
In order to be able to use the request/reply functionality, add the following section to your Maven pom:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>ch.sbb.tms.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-request-reply</artifactId>
</dependency>
```



In order to use the starter in conjunction with a Binder, one will also need the respective dependency for that one.



### Usage

#### For requester

If your want to send a request.  
You have to define a topic pattern that match the topic where you send your requests to,
to define the binding that should be used for these requests.
With the binding your define the binder, contentType, ...  
and the response address where the replier should send the response to.

`spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[n].binding` have to:
- match a entry in: `spring.cloud.function.definition`
- match `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.XX-in-0` where you defined the binder, contentType, ...

`spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[n].topicPatterns[m]`:
- Is a list of RegEx pattern that will match against the destination of your requests.
- If there is no matching patterns when execute `requestAndAwaitReplyToTopic()`/`requestReplyToTopic()` and `IllegalArgumentException` will be thrown.
- If you only want to use `requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding()`/`requestReplyToBinding()` you don`t need to give this configuration.

Please remember to define this binding as well in the `spring.cloud.function.definition`,
otherwise you will not receive responses.
But you not need to create a bean for that, this will be generated by the library.

##### Using dynamic topics
```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    function:
      definition: requestReplyRepliesDemo
    stream:
      requestreply:
        bindingMapping:
          - binding: requestReplyRepliesDemo
            replyTopic: requestReply/response/solace/{StagePlaceholder}/@project.artifactId@_${HOSTNAME}_${replyTopicWithWildcards|uuid}
            topicPatterns:
              - requestReply/request/.*
      bindings:
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-in-0:
          destination: ${replyTopicWithWildcards|requestReplyRepliesDemo|*}
          contentType: "application/json"
          binder: solace 
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-out-0:
          binder: solace
```

```java
        SensorReading response = requestReplyService.requestAndAwaitReplyToTopic(
                reading,
                "requestReply/request/last_value/temperature/celsius/" + location,
                SensorReading.class,
                Duration.ofSeconds(30)
        );
```

##### Using static topics
```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    function:
      definition: requestReplyRepliesDemo
    stream:
      requestreply:
        bindingMapping:
          - binding: requestReplyRepliesDemo
            replyTopic: requestReply/response/solace/{StagePlaceholder}/@project.artifactId@_${HOSTNAME}_${replyTopicWithWildcards|uuid}
      bindings:
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-in-0:
          destination: ${replyTopicWithWildcards|requestReplyRepliesDemo|*}
          contentType: "application/json"
          binder: solace 
        requestReplyRepliesDemo-out-0:
          destination: requestReply/request/last_value/temperature/celsius/livingroom,
          binder: solace
```

```java
        SensorReading response = requestReplyService.requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding(
                reading,
                "requestReplyRepliesDemo",
                SensorReading.class,
                Duration.ofSeconds(30)
        );
```

[Full example](https://code.sbb.ch/projects/TP_TMS_PLATTFORM/repos/springcloudstream-examples/browse/pub_sub_sending/src/main/java/ch/sbb/tms/springcloudstream/examples/pubsubsending/controller/RequestReplyController.java)

##### How everything is related

When using `requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding` / `requestReplyToTopic`
The topic u use in the code will be matched against all `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].topicPatterns`,  
the fist hit will be used.
![topic to pattern](doc/requester_topic_to_pattern.png)

The `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].binding` of the matching section will be matched against
`spring.cloud.stream.bindings[]` and always out-1 will be used.  
This is required to let the requestReply service know what `binder`, `contentType`, ... is to use.  
![binding to -out-0](doc/binding_to_out-0.png) 

The `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].replyTopic` of the matching section will be placed int the outbound 
message to let the foreign service know where you expect the answer.  
In general, you want to use here a topic that is unique.  
Best practice is to put:
- HOSTNAME into the topic to make debugging a little easier.
- put a UUID into the topic to have a unique inbox.
  You not want to use `${random.uuid}` of spring here, because this would generate a new uuid each time it will be called.
  What is a problem at this point. Please prefer `${replyTopicWithWildcards|uuid}` to have a static uuid that was generated on process start.  
![reply topic sending](doc/reply_topic_sending.png)

The requestReply service will iterate over `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping` 
And create a Bean to consume messages received on `-in-0.destination` using the given binder.  
![consuming topic](doc/consuming_topic.png)

As soon as you use the `{StagePlaceholder}` feature, you can not listen on:  
`requestReply/response/solace/{StagePlaceholder}/pub_sub_sending_K353456_315fd96b-b981-417b-be99-3be065c6611d`  
because the foreign side will replace `{StagePlaceholder}` against `p-arcs`for example before responding.  
There for you need to listen on:
`requestReply/response/solace/*/pub_sub_sending_K353456_315fd96b-b981-417b-be99-3be065c6611d`  
This task will be done by: `${replyTopicWithWildcards|requestReplyRepliesDemo|*}`  
It will take `spring.cloud.stream.requestreply.bindingMapping[].replyTopic` of the section, matching the first parameter.  
And replace all `{someThing}` to the wildcard (second parameter) `*`  
![reply topic replace wildcard](doc/replyTopicWithWildcards.png)

#### For replier
In general, if you want to answer to a message, you do not need this library. Instead you can simply send the response
to the topic defined in the reply to header and reply all requested header.

However, the method `RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService.wrap` from this library can support in creating the
response with properly setting the message headers, as well as with substituting variables in dynamic topics.

By default the wrapping function will set the correlationId and reply destination headers of the message. Additional
headers can be configured to be copied from the request by setting `spring.cloud.stream.requestReply.copyHeadersOnWrap`
accordingly, e.g.:

```properties
spring.cloud.stream.requestReply.copyHeadersOnWrap=encoding,yetAnotherHeader
```

The actual Wrapping can be used as in the example below:

```java
public class PingPongConfig {
  @Bean
  public Function<Message<SensorRequest>, Message<SensorReading>> responseToRequest(RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService headerSupport) {
    return headerSupport.wrap((readingIn) -> {
      SensorReading reading = new SensorReading();
      ...

      return reading;
    });
  }
}
```

[Full example](https://code.sbb.ch/projects/TP_TMS_PLATTFORM/repos/springcloudstream-examples/browse/pub_sub_receiving/src/main/java/ch/sbb/tms/springcloudstream/examples/pubsubreceiving/config/PingPongConfig.java)

##### Variable replacement

According to this documentation:
- https://confluence.sbb.ch/display/TRS/Solace+Communication-+und+Naming-Patterns
- https://confluence.sbb.ch/display/TRS/Solace+Pattern+AR+Entscheid

There is a need to replace wildcards in reply topics.
For example: "{StagePlaceholder}" need to be replaced by the replier stage.
To let the requester know who answered. That will be helpful when debugging how messages are flowing.

Example:

```yaml
spring:
  cloud:
    function:
      definition: requestReplyRepliesDemo
    stream:
      requestreply:
        variableReplacements:
          "{StagePlaceholder}": ${RCS_ENV_ROLE}-${RCS_CLUSTER}
```

Those `variableReplacements` will be applied to request and reply topics.

### API

#### `RequestReplyService`

The request/reply functionality provided by this starter can be utilized by autowiring the `RequestReplyService` which offers  the following methods:

- `A requestAndAwaitReplyToTopic(Q request, String requestDestination, Class<A> expectedResponseClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the given request destination, awaits the response and maps it to the provided class as a return value.
  If there is a `-out-0.destination` configured, it will simply be ignored.
- `A requestAndAwaitReplyToBinding(Q request, String bindingName, Class<A> expectedResponseClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the `destination`configured for the `-out-0`of this binding, awaits the response and maps it to the provided class as a return value.
  If there is a `-out-0.destination` configured, it will simply be ignored.
- `CompletableFuture<A> requestReplyToTopic(Q request, String requestDestination, Class<A> expectedClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the given request destination, returns a future and maps it to the provided class when responses received. Use this only if you have the rare edge case that you need to run multiple request reply in parallel in the same thread.
- `CompletableFuture<A> requestReplyToBinding(Q request, String bindingName, Class<A> expectedClass, Duration timeoutPeriod)`
  sends the given request to the `destination`configured for the `-out-0`of this binding, returns a future and maps it to the provided class when responses received. Use this only if you have the rare edge case that you need to run multiple request reply in parallel in the same thread.

All methods can be used in any combination.

#### `RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService`

In case a service is only responding to requests, the library can still be used as it offers receiving services helper methods to wrap response functions by means of the `RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService`, which properly sets the Message's destination header, which then can be picked up through Spring Cloud Functions. e.g.:

```java
    @Bean
    @Autowired
    public Function<Message<String>, Message<String>> reverse(RequestReplyMessageHeaderSupportService headerSupport) {
        return headerSupport.wrap((value) -> new StringBuilder(value).reverse().toString());
    }
```

## Extensibility

The Request/Reply Spring Boot Starter has been designed to work with both the [Solace Binder](https://github.com/SolaceProducts/solace-spring-cloud) and the [TestSupportBinder](https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-stream/blob/main/spring-cloud-stream-test-support/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/stream/test/binder/TestSupportBinder.java), but can be extended to work with other binders as well.

For that the following beans must be provided to be able to adopt to another binder.

### Message and MessageHeader parsers

When receiving messages, the application must be able to determine correlationId, destination and replyTo properties attached to a message. Unless a particular binder adheres to spring messaging standards or requires differing headers for performance optimizations, additional message parsers (or related message header parsers) must be present. For proper prioritization the bean should be annotated with the `@Order` annotation. (see [@Order in Spring @Baeldung])



The Starter includes the following message parser interfaces:

- `MessageCorrelationIdParser` - root interface for parsing the correlation id from an incoming message
  - `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser` - extended interface for parsing the correlation id from an incoming message's MessageHeaders
- `MessageDestinationParser` - root interface for parsing the destination from an incoming message
  - `MessageHeaderDestinationParser`- extended interface for parsing the destination from an incoming message's MessageHeaders
- `MessageReplyToParser` - root interface for parsing the reply destination from an incoming message
  - `MessageHeaderReplyToParser` - extended interface for parsing the reply destination from an incoming message's MessageHeaders



The starter also includes the following message parser implementations:

- `SolaceHeaderParser`  _Order: 200_
  implements `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser`,  `MessageHeaderDestinationParser`, `MessageHeaderReplyToParser` for the Solace binder
- `SpringCloudStreamHeaderParser` _Order 10000_
  implements `MessageHeaderDestinationParser` for standard Spring Cloud Stream headers
- `SpringIntegrationHeaderParser` _Order 20000_
  implements `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser` for standard Spring Integration headers
- `BinderHeaderParser` _Order 30000_
  implements `MessageHeaderDestinationParser` for standard Spring Cloud Stream Binder headers
- `SpringHeaderParser` _Order 40000_
  implements `MessageHeaderReplyToParser` for Spring Framework message header standards
- `HttpHeaderParser` _Order LOWEST_PRECEDENCE_
  implements `MessageHeaderCorrelationIdParser` according to HTTP header standard



## Known issues and Open Points

### Statefulness
Since message relations are kept in memory, this starter is neither fail-safe nor scalable.

More precisely:
- If one instance of the service sends a message and another one receives the response, these can not be related.
- If a service dies, any relations are forgotten and replies can no longer be related to request,
  potentially resulting in message loss.

## External Links
- [Spring Cloud Stream Solace Samples](https://solace.com/samples/solace-samples-spring/spring-cloud-stream/)


## Compatibility

Tested with:

| SpringBoot 	| SpringCloudStream 	|
|------------	|-------------------	|
| 2.6.6      	| 2021.0.1          	| 
| 2.6.6      	| 2021.0.3           	|

<!-- reused links -->

[@Order in Spring @Baeldung]: https://www.baeldung.com/spring-order
[Spring Cloud Stream Binders]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-stream/docs/current/reference/html/spring-cloud-stream.html#spring-cloud-stream-overview-binders
